## K8-06 — Integration of the Hybrid-DRG Master Data File

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| **ID** | K8-06 |
| **Type** | Optional |
| **Source** | KVDT v6.06 |
| **Section** | 5 Abrechnung von Hybrid-DRGs |
| **Status** | TBC |
| **Goals** | — |
| **Verification Method** | — |
| **Matched by** | — |
| **Refer** | — |

### Requirement

The data of the valid Hybrid-DRG master data file of the KBV must be stored in the software for use.

### Rationale

To support practices in billing Hybrid-DRG services, software systems can integrate the data of the Hybrid-DRG master data file (SDHDRG). The SDHRG maps the data from Annexes 1 and 2 of the Hybrid-DRG remuneration agreement.

It should be noted that the functions of a Grouper cannot be replaced with the data of the SDHDRG.

### Acceptance Criteria

1. The Hybrid-DRG master data file according to [KBV_ITA_VGEX_Schnittstelle_SDHDRG] is integrated into the software and is used in its current valid version.
   a) The software checks whether the Hybrid-DRG specified in FK 5027 exists as content of the XML element `.../leistungsbereich/hybrid_drg_liste/hybrid_drg/@V` in the current master data file.
      i. If the Hybrid-DRG entered by the user is not present in the master data file, the software must alert the user with a warning.
   b) The software can offer the user further assistance based on the master data file.
   c) The software must ensure that the respectively current delivered SDHDRG is available in the software at any given time.
   d) The software must provide the user with the ability to view the validity status of the integrated master data file.
2. The software must provide the user the ability to view the data according to the SDHRG.
