## P3-07 — Diagnosis Group

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| **ID** | P3-07 |
| **Type** | Mandatory |
| **Source** | Heilmittel v2.7 |
| **Section** | 3.2 Verordnung von Heilmitteln |
| **Status** | TBC |
| **Goals** | — |
| **Verification Method** | — |
| **Matched by** | — |
| **Refer** | [P3-10](P3-10.md), [P3-18](P3-18.md) |

### Requirement

The user must be given the ability to select a diagnosis group in the "Diagnosis Group" field.

### Rationale

According to § 13 para. 2 lit. j. of the HeilM-RL, a diagnosis group must be specified in accordance with the remedy catalog.

### Acceptance Criteria

1. The user must be given the ability to select a diagnosis group in the "Diagnosis Group" field.
2. When a remedy area has been selected per [P3-10](P3-10.md), only the diagnosis groups assigned to that remedy area may be offered for selection (SDHM XML-Element ../kapitel/diagnosegruppe/@V).
3. When no remedy area has been selected per [P3-10](P3-10.md), all diagnosis groups according to the Remedy Master Data File (SDHM XML-Element ../kapitel/diagnosegruppe/@V) are offered for selection. After selecting the diagnosis group, the remedy area must be set automatically.
4. In the Remedy Master Data File, a diagnosis group may have an additional list of treatment-relevant diagnoses assigned to it, specified in the form of their ICD-10-GM codes (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/erforderliche_diagnosen/icd_code/@V). The existence of at least one of these diagnoses during the prescribing process is a prerequisite for the prescribability of a remedy for this diagnosis group. The software must notify the user when selecting the diagnosis group if at least one of these diagnoses has not been specified during the prescribing process. Termination of the prescribing process is not permitted after the notice is displayed.
5. If the diagnosis group UI1 or UI2 (Remedy Area Podological Therapy) (SDHM XML-Element ../kapitel/@V equals "II. Maßnahmen der Podologischen Therapie") is selected, the following notice text is to be displayed without interrupting the workflow: "If multiple toenails are to be treated, one prescription per toenail must be issued."

### Notes

When selecting the diagnosis group, the identification as special prescribing need or long-term remedy need as per [P3-18](P3-18.md) (1) through (4) must also be observed.
