## P3-08 — Lead Symptomatology

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| **ID** | P3-08 |
| **Type** | Mandatory |
| **Source** | Heilmittel v2.7 |
| **Section** | 3.2 Verordnung von Heilmitteln |
| **Status** | TBC |
| **Goals** | — |
| **Verification Method** | — |
| **Matched by** | — |
| **Refer** | — |

### Requirement

The user must be given the ability to specify one or more prescription-justifying lead symptomatologies.

### Rationale

According to § 13 para. 2 lit. l. of the HeilM-RL, the user has different options for specifying the lead symptomatology. This ensures the provision of patient-specific information to the remedy provider.

### Acceptance Criteria

1. The user must have the following two alternative options for populating the "Lead Symptomatology" field:
   a. Entry of one to three letter-coded lead symptomatology/symptomatologies according to the selected diagnosis group (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/leitsymptomatik_liste/leitsymptomatik/@V).
      - i. The plain text(s) of the lead symptomatology (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/leitsymptomatik_liste/leitsymptomatik/@DN) are automatically adopted onto the prescription and separated by ";".
      - ii. The adopted plain text(s) must be editable, supplementable, or deletable.
   b. Entry of a "patient-individual lead symptomatology" according to the selected diagnosis group, if it is assigned to the selected diagnosis group (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/leitsymptomatik_liste/patientenindividuelle_leitsymptomatik/@V equals true).
      - i. When the user selects the patient-individual lead symptomatology field, the user is prompted to enter plain text as free text.
      - ii. If, upon selecting the "patient-individual lead symptomatology" field, no text was entered, the workflow continues but the software indicates the obligation to provide input. Termination of the prescribing process (printing or saving) is not permitted after the notice is displayed.
2. Letter-coded and patient-individual lead symptomatologies that are not assigned to the diagnosis group must not be available for selection on the prescription (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/leitsymptomatik_liste/leitsymptomatik/).
3. The user must have the ability to adopt additional texts from the patient documentation into the "Lead Symptomatology" field.
4. If the user selects neither a letter-coded lead symptomatology according to the Remedy Master Data File (SDHM XML-Element ../diagnosegruppe/leitsymptomatik_liste/leitsymptomatik/@V) nor a patient-individual lead symptomatology, the user must be notified about the missing information.
