## P3-35 — Integration of Remedy Prices by the Software Manufacturer

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| **ID** | P3-35 |
| **Type** | Mandatory |
| **Source** | Heilmittel v2.7 |
| **Section** | 4 Statistik- und Controlling-Funktionen |
| **Status** | TBC |
| **Goals** | — |
| **Verification Method** | — |
| **Matched by** | — |
| **Refer** | [P3-34](P3-34.md) |

### Requirement

The software integrates the remedy prices agreed upon by the GKV-SV per § 125 SGB V for all prescribable remedies per the Heilmittel-Stammdatei.

### Rationale

The integration of prices for remedies can serve the physician as orienting information about prescription behavior and be used by the practice to control remedy prescriptions.

### Acceptance Criteria

1. In the software, the remedy prices published by the GKV-SV [Heilmittel_Preise] for the remedies defined per the Heilmittel-Stammdatei are to be stored by the software manufacturer.
    a. The price must refer to one treatment unit per remedy.
    b. The assignment of prices to remedies must be done based on the remedy position numbers defined in the Heilmittel-Stammdatei (SDHM XML-Elements ../diagnosegruppe/heilmittelverordnung/vorrangiges_heilmittel_liste/vorrangiges_heilmittel/positionsnr_liste/positionsnr/@V, ../diagnosegruppe/heilmittelverordnung/ergaenzendes_heilmittel_liste/ergaenzendes_heilmittel/positionsnr_liste/positionsnr/@V, and ../diagnosegruppe/heilmittelverordnung/standardisierte_heilmittel_kombination/positionsnr_liste/positionsnr/@V).
2. The remedy prices must be displayed during the prescription process.
3. The software must offer the option to deactivate the display of prices during the prescription process.
4. The software must offer the option to display the source and the status (date of entry into force) of the stored remedy prices.
5. The stored prices must be included in the prescription statistics (per [P3-34](P3-34.md)).
6. The software must offer the user the option to modify the integrated prices.
7. In the event of an update of the remedy prices [Heilmittel_Preise], a query must be made as to whether the user-modified prices should be overwritten or not.
8. In the case of more than one position number being specified in the master data, the prices are to be added.
